Let's begin our discussion of sensors with the IMU or inertial measurement unit.
IMU is actually an umbrella term for three specific sensors that describe motion.
The accelerometer, the gyroscope, and the magnetometer.
The accelerometer measures linear acceleration,
the gyroscope is for angular velocity,
or how fast something is rotating and in which direction,
and the magnetometer describes
absolute orientation by sensing the Earth's magnetic field.
So the accelerometer might tell you that the device is moving to the left really fast,
but it won't tell you which way left actually is.
The magnetometer will tell you that moving to the left means going east.
Each of these sensors actually has three channels of measurements.
So there would be three accelerometers on a device,
each measuring acceleration in a perpendicular direction to the other two,
and they would be labeled accelerometer X, Y, and Z.
This would be like measuring acceleration up and down,
to the left and right,
and forward and backwards.
But because device manufacturers can orient their accelerometers however they want to,
we don't really know which way X, Y, or Z point.
So Z wouldn't necessarily be the vertical direction.
We won't be dealing as much with gyroscopes and magnetometers in this course,
but we will be looking at accelerometers,
so let's understand how they work.
This diagram is a model for an accelerometer.
We have a mass attached to a spring,
and as this mass moves,
it moves a metal plate in between two capacitors.
This changes the voltage of the circuit depending on where the mass is.
Because we know that the displacement of a mass on
a spring is proportional to the force acting on that mass,
we can see how the voltage then is proportional to that force or the acceleration.
If we combine three accelerometers perpendicularly,
we can measure the acceleration in three-dimensional space.
This also means that accelerometers are affected by gravity.
For example, if we rotate our accelerometer at 90 degrees,
we can see how gravity would pull the mass down and the accelerometer would cause
a voltage in the circuit associated with one gravitational force or one g-force.
In fact, the accelerometer only measures
zero if it's in free fall, like when you drop it.
This also means that when the device is stationary,
you can measure its tilt.
If the acceleration is in the downward Z direction,
then it's flat on a table,
or if it's all in the x-direction,
then the device is tilted on its side.
We'll take a deeper look at this and other phenomena in the next lesson,
where we look at accelerometer traces in detail.